# Discussion

The Vancouver street tree population contains over 80 unique genera, with two highly abundant and highly dominant genera <i>Prunus</i> and <i>Acer</i>, their relative importance value being 23.81% and 23.00% respectively {numref}`tree_population_importance`. The prevalence of these two genera in the street tree population presents a potential vulnerability to the role street trees play in Vancouver's Urban Forest Plan. As temperatures increase, will these two genera remain viable and continue to thrive? Are these genera vulnerable to pests that may become more prevalent as average temperatures increase? If these genera are lost or are significantly threatened, nearly 50% of the street tree population importance could disappear. This would greatly diminish the street tree population's contribution to climate adaptation, a major goal of the Vancouver Urban Forest Plan. Further research into the temperature heartiness of these two genera and their susceptibility to pests could further elucidate the actual risks the lack of genus diversity poses. It may be prudent for the City of Vancouver to begin greater diversification of the street tree population and invest in genera that are hearty against temperature extremes and pests in order to safeguard against such a loss in our uncertain climate future.

The distribution of importance value between size classes differs between the top 3 genera of the street tree population {numref}`importance_value_dist`. Due to these differing distributions, the maintenance requirements for each genus may differ. <i>Acer</i>, holding its importance value in smaller size classes may require maintenance activities more common with younger trees, such as staking, while <i>Prunus</i>, holding more importance in larger trees, may require activities such as pruning to ensure healthy tree structure. <i>Quercus</i>, showing a more even distribution of importance value between size classes may be more difficult and costly to maintain as a greater range of maintenance activities may be required. In order to preserve the importance value of these genera and optimize use of city funds in this effort, it may be worth while to develop a maintenance strategy that is genus-specific as not all genus populations will require the same type and amount of care.

The density of street tree importance value differs between Vancouver neighbourhoods {numref}`neighbourhood_importance_density`. Kitsilano holds the highest density of street tree importance value at 2.5 / Km<sup>2</sup> while Strathcona holds the least at 0.71 / Km<sup>2</sup>. Neighbourhoods such as Strathcona, Kilarney and Downtown require strategies to increase stree tree importance value so total importance value of the street tree population is more evenly distributed across all neighbourhoods, and residents of all areas can see the same benefits such as neighbourhood beautification and climate adaptation that the Vancouver Urban Forest Plan is meant to provide. Further investigation into differing environmental conditions such as soil quality or prevalence of concrete surfaces that may prevent tree planting in each neighbourhood would be important in determining if this could be possible.